README.md, before:

MaterialSkin for .NET WinForms
=====================

Theming .NET WinForms, C# or VB.Net, to Google's Material Design Principles.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A8osVM_SXlg" target="_blank">![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/JAttoOo.png)</a>

*High quality images can be found at the bottom of this page.*

---
#### New Controls
Combobox , Checkedlistbox and Floating Action Button

#### Current state of the MaterialSkin components
Component | Supported | Dark & light version | Disabled mode | Animated
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Checkbox | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
CheckedListbox | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
Combobox | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
Divider | Yes | Yes | N/A | N/A 
Flat Button | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
Label | Yes | Yes | N/A | N/A
Radio Button | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes
Raised Button | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
Single-line text field | Yes | Yes | No | Yes
TabControl | Yes | N/A | N/A | Yes
ContextMenuStrip | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes
ListView | Yes | Yes | No | No
ProgressBar | Yes | Yes | No | No 
FloatingActionButton | Yes | Yes | No | No
Dialogs | No | No | No | No
Switch | No | No | No | No
More... | No | No | No | No

---

#### Implementing MaterialSkin in your application

**1. Add the library to your project**

  You can do this on multiple ways. The easiest way would be adding the [NuGet Package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MaterialSkin/). Right click on your project and click 'Manage NuGet Packages...'. Search for 'MaterialSkin' and click on install. Once installed the library will be included in your project references. (Or install it through the package manager console: PM> Install-Package MaterialSkin)

Another way of doing this step would be cloning the project from GitHub, compiling the library yourself and adding it as a reference.
  
**2. Add the MaterialSkin components to your ToolBox**

  If you have installed the NuGet package, the MaterialSkin.dll file should be in the folder //bin/Debug. Simply drag the MaterialSkin.dll file into your IDE's ToolBox and all the controls should be added there.
  
**3. Inherit from MaterialForm**

  Open the code behind your Form you wish to skin. Make it inherit from MaterialForm rather than Form. Don't forget to put the library in your imports, so it can find the MaterialForm class!
  
  C# (Form1.cs)
  ```cs
  public partial class Form1 : MaterialForm
  ```
  
  VB.NET (Form1.Designer.vb)
  ```vb
  Partial Class Form1
    Inherits MaterialSkin.Controls.MaterialForm
  ```
  
**4. Initialize your colorscheme**

  Set your preferred colors & theme. Also add the form to the manager so it keeps updated if the color scheme or theme changes later on.

C# (Form1.cs)
  ```cs
  public Form1()
  {
      InitializeComponent();

      var materialSkinManager = MaterialSkinManager.Instance;
      materialSkinManager.AddFormToManage(this);
      materialSkinManager.Theme = MaterialSkinManager.Themes.LIGHT;
      materialSkinManager.ColorScheme = new ColorScheme(Primary.BlueGrey800, Primary.BlueGrey900, Primary.BlueGrey500, Accent.LightBlue200, TextShade.WHITE);
  }
  ```

VB.NET (Form1.vb)
```vb
Imports MaterialSkin

Public Class Form1

    Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles MyBase.Load
        Dim SkinManager As MaterialSkinManager = MaterialSkinManager.Instance
        SkinManager.AddFormToManage(Me)
        SkinManager.Theme = MaterialSkinManager.Themes.LIGHT
        SkinManager.ColorScheme = New ColorScheme(Primary.BlueGrey800, Primary.BlueGrey900, Primary.BlueGrey500, Accent.LightBlue200, TextShade.WHITE)
    End Sub
End Class
```

---

#### Material Design in WPF

If you love .NET and Material Design, you should definitely check out [Material Design Xaml Toolkit](https://github.com/ButchersBoy/MaterialDesignInXamlToolkit) by ButchersBoy. It's a similar project but for WPF instead of WinForms.

---


#### State of the project

This project is no longer under active development. Though, contributions are still welcome and the community will likely still help if you open an issue.

---

#### Contact

If you wish to contact me for anything you can get in touch at:

- Twitter: https://twitter.com/Ignace_Maes
- Personal Website: http://ignacemaes.com

---

#### Images

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/Ub0N9Xf.png)

*A simple demo interface with MaterialSkin components.*

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/eIAtRkc.png)

*The MaterialSkin checkboxes.*

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/sAPyvdH.png)

*The MaterialSkin radiobuttons.*

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/3Zpuv6x.png)

*The MaterialSkin ListView.*

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/07MrJZQ.png)

*MaterialSkin using a custom color scheme.*

Commit message:

Added support to apply basic material theme colors and font to any control on a material form.

README.md, after:

MaterialSkin for .NET WinForms
=====================

Theming .NET WinForms, C# or VB.Net, to Google's Material Design Principles.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A8osVM_SXlg" target="_blank">![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/JAttoOo.png)</a>

*High quality images can be found at the bottom of this page.*

---
#### Updates
* [2018-12-24] New controls added 
* [2018-12-26] Added support to theme / color non Material controls on a Material form

### New Controls
* Combobox
* Checkedlistbox 
* Floating Action Button


#### Current state of the MaterialSkin components
Component | Supported | Dark & light version | Disabled mode | Animated
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
Checkbox | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
CheckedListbox | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
Combobox | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
Divider | Yes | Yes | N/A | N/A 
Flat Button | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
Label | Yes | Yes | N/A | N/A
Radio Button | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes
Raised Button | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes 
Single-line text field | Yes | Yes | No | Yes
TabControl | Yes | N/A | N/A | Yes
ContextMenuStrip | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes
ListView | Yes | Yes | No | No
ProgressBar | Yes | Yes | No | No 
FloatingActionButton | Yes | Yes | No | No
Dialogs | No | No | No | No
Switch | No | No | No | No
More... | Yes | Yes | No | No

---

#### Implementing MaterialSkin in your application

**1. Add the library to your project**

**working on this part**

  ~~You can do this on multiple ways. The easiest way would be adding the [NuGet Package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MaterialSkin/). Right click on your project and click 'Manage NuGet Packages...'. Search for 'MaterialSkin' and click on install. Once installed the library will be included in your project references. (Or install it through the package manager console: PM> Install-Package MaterialSkin)~~

Another way of doing this step would be cloning the project from GitHub, compiling the library yourself and adding it as a reference.
  
**2. Add the MaterialSkin components to your ToolBox**

  If you have installed the NuGet package, the MaterialSkin.dll file should be in the folder //bin/Debug. Simply drag the MaterialSkin.dll file into your IDE's ToolBox and all the controls should be added there.
  
**3. Inherit from MaterialForm**

  Open the code behind your Form you wish to skin. Make it inherit from MaterialForm rather than Form. Don't forget to put the library in your imports, so it can find the MaterialForm class!
  
  C# (Form1.cs)
  ```cs
  public partial class Form1 : MaterialForm
  ```
  
  VB.NET (Form1.Designer.vb)
  ```vb
  Partial Class Form1
    Inherits MaterialSkin.Controls.MaterialForm
  ```
  
**4. Initialize your colorscheme**

  Set your preferred colors & theme. Also add the form to the manager so it keeps updated if the color scheme or theme changes later on.

C# (Form1.cs)
  ```cs
  public Form1()
  {
      InitializeComponent();

      var materialSkinManager = MaterialSkinManager.Instance;
      materialSkinManager.AddFormToManage(this);
      materialSkinManager.Theme = MaterialSkinManager.Themes.LIGHT;
      materialSkinManager.ColorScheme = new ColorScheme(Primary.BlueGrey800, Primary.BlueGrey900, Primary.BlueGrey500, Accent.LightBlue200, TextShade.WHITE);
  }
  ```

VB.NET (Form1.vb)
```vb
Imports MaterialSkin

Public Class Form1

    Private Sub Form1_Load(sender As Object, e As EventArgs) Handles MyBase.Load
        Dim SkinManager As MaterialSkinManager = MaterialSkinManager.Instance
        SkinManager.AddFormToManage(Me)
        SkinManager.Theme = MaterialSkinManager.Themes.LIGHT
        SkinManager.ColorScheme = New ColorScheme(Primary.BlueGrey800, Primary.BlueGrey900, Primary.BlueGrey500, Accent.LightBlue200, TextShade.WHITE)
    End Sub
End Class
```

---

#### Material Design in WPF

If you love .NET and Material Design, you should definitely check out [Material Design Xaml Toolkit](https://github.com/ButchersBoy/MaterialDesignInXamlToolkit) by ButchersBoy. It's a similar project but for WPF instead of WinForms.

---


#### State of the project

This project is **ACTIVE**

---

#### Contact

>###### This project was originally forked from https://github.com/IgnaceMaes/MaterialSkin
> If you have any issues please open an issue or pull request. 

---

#### Images

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/Ub0N9Xf.png)

*A simple demo interface with MaterialSkin components.*

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/eIAtRkc.png)

*The MaterialSkin checkboxes.*

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/sAPyvdH.png)

*The MaterialSkin radiobuttons.*

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/3Zpuv6x.png)

*The MaterialSkin ListView.*

![alt tag](http://i.imgur.com/07MrJZQ.png)

*MaterialSkin using a custom color scheme.*
